#### Instance Configuration

The content in the `configuration` section or nested object in the body posted to the `POST /instances` or `PUT /instances/{id}` APIs varies depending on which element is being instantiated. However, some configuration properties are common to all elements and available to be configured for all elements. These properties are -

* `event.notification.enabled`: This property is a `boolean` property, and determines if event reception (via `webhook` or `polling`) is enabled for the element instance. This property defaults to *false*.
* `event.vendor.type`: When `event.notification.enabled` property is set to *true*, this property determines the mechanism for Cloud Elements to use to receive or fetch changed events from the service endpoint. The supported values are `webhook` and `polling`. Most elements support one mechanism or the other, but some elements, e.g., Salesforce.com support both mechanisms. This property is *optional*.
* `event.notification.type`: This property can be used to determine how an event notification should be sent to the consumer of the element instance, in most cases your application. Currently, `webhook` is the only supported value for this property. This means that when an event is received by the element instance, it will get forwarded to the provided `event.notification.callback.url` via a `webhook` to you. This property is *optional*.
* `event.notification.callback.url`: As mentioned above, the value of this property is an `http` or `https` URL to which Cloud Element will post the event for consumption by your application. This property is *optional*.
* `filter.response.nulls`: This property defaults to *true*, i.e., it's  `boolean` property, and determines if `null` values in the response `JSON` should or should not be filtered from the response returned to the consuming application. By default, all `null` values are filtered from the response before sending the response to the consuming application.
